programoutput/doc/index.rst, before:

.. default-domain:: rst
.. highlight:: rest

:py:mod:`sphinxcontrib.programoutput` – Insert command output
=============================================================

.. py:module:: sphinxcontrib.programoutput
   :synopsis:  Include the output of programs into documents

Sphinx 1.0 extension to insert the output of arbitrary commands into documents.

The extension is available under the terms of the BSD license, see LICENSE_
for more information.


Installation
------------

This extension requires Sphinx_ 1.0 and Python 2.6.  It is available in the
Python Package Index::

   pip install sphinxcontrib-programoutput

Alternatively, you can clone the sphinx-contrib_ repository from BitBucket,
and install the extension directly from the repository::

   hg clone https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx-contrib
   cd sphinx-contrib/programoutput
   python setup.py install


Usage
-----

To include the output of a command into your document, use the
:dir:`program-output` directive provided by this extension::

   .. program-output:: python -V

The whole output of ``python -V``, including any messages on standard error, is
inserted into the current document, formatted as literal text without any
syntax highlighting:

.. program-output:: python -V

You can omit the content of the standard error stream with the ``nostderr``
option.


Shortening the output
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lengthy output can be shortened with the ``ellipsis`` option.  Its value
denotes lines to omit when inserting the output of the command.  Instead, a
single ellipsis ``...`` is inserted.

If used with a single number, all lines after the specified line are omitted::

   .. program-output:: python --help
      :ellipsis: 2

The above omits all lines after the second one:

.. program-output:: python --help
   :ellipsis: 2

Negative numbers count from the last line backwards, thus replacing ``2`` with
``-2`` in the above example would only omit the last two lines.

If used with two comma-separated line numbers, all lines in between the
specified lines are omitted.  Again, a negative number counts from the last
line backwards::

   .. program-output:: python --help
      :ellipsis: 2,-2

The above omits all lines except the first two and the last two lines:

.. program-output:: python --help
   :ellipsis: 2,-2


Mimicing shell input
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can mimic shell input with the :dir:`command-output` directive [#alias]_.
This directive inserts the command along with its output into the document::

   .. command-output:: python -V

.. command-output:: python -V

The appearance of this output can be configured with
:confval:`programoutput_prompt_template`.  When used in conjunction with
``ellipsis``, the command itself and any additional text is *never* omitted.
``ellipsis`` always refers to the *immediate output* of the command::

   .. command-output:: python --help
      :ellipsis: 2

.. command-output:: python --help
   :ellipsis: 2


Command execution and shell expansion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Normally the command is splitted according to the POSIX shell syntax (see
:py:mod:`shlex`), and executed directly.  Thus special shell features like
expansion of environment variables will not work::

   .. command-output:: echo "$USER"

.. command-output:: echo "$USER"

To enable these features, enable the ``shell`` option.  With this option, the
command is literally passed to the system shell::

   .. command-output:: echo "$USER"
      :shell:

.. command-output:: echo "$USER"
   :shell:

Other shell features like process expansion consequently work, too::

   .. command-output:: ls -l $(which grep)
      :shell:

.. command-output:: ls -l $(which grep)
   :shell:

Remember to use ``shell`` carefully to avoid unintented interpretation of shell
syntax!


Error handling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If an unexpected exit code (also known as *return code*) is returned by a
command, it is considered to have failed.  In this case, a build warning is
emitted to help you to detect misspelled commands or similar errors.  By
default, a command is expected to exit with an exit code of 0, all other codes
indicate an error.  In some cases however, it may be reasonable to demonstrate
failed programs.  To avoid a (superfluous) warning in such a case, you can
specify the expected return code of a command with the ``returncode`` option::

   .. command-output:: python -c 'import sys; sys.exit(1)'
      :returncode: 1

The above command returns the exit code 1 (as given to :py:func:`sys.exit()`),
but no warning will be emitted.  On the contrary, a warning will be emitted,
should the command return 0!


Reference
---------

.. directive:: .. program-output:: command

   Include the output of ``command`` in the documentation.

   The output is formatted as literal text, without any syntax highlighting.

   By default, the command is split according to the POSIX shell syntax (using
   :py:func:`shlex.split()`), and executed directly.  Both standard output and
   standard error are captured from the invocation of ``command`` and included
   in the document.  However, if the option ``shell`` is given, ``command`` is
   literally passed to the system shell.  With the ``nostderr`` option,
   standard error is hidden from the output.

   If the ``prompt`` option is given, the ``command`` itself is included in the
   document, so that the output mimics input in a shell prompt.
   :confval:`programoutput_prompt_template` controlls the appearance of this.
   The value of the ``extraargs`` option is appended at the end of ``command``
   (separated by a whitespace) before executing the command, but not included
   in the output of the ``prompt`` option.  Use this to pass extra arguments
   which should not appear in the document.

   The output can be shortened with the ``ellipsis`` option.  The value of this
   option is of the form ``start[,end]`` with ``start`` and ``end`` being
   integers which refer to lines in the output of ``command``.  ``end`` is
   optional and defaults to the last line.  Negative line numbers count
   backwards from the last line.  Everything in the interval ``[start, end[``
   is replaced with a single ellipsis ``...``.  The ``ellipsis`` option only
   affects the immediate output of ``command``, but never any additional text
   inserted by option ``prompt``.

   If the command does return an exit code different from the expected one, a
   build warning is issued.  The expected return code defaults to 0, and can be
   changed with the ``returncode`` option.

.. directive:: command-output

   Same as :dir:`program-output`, but with enabled ``prompt`` option.


Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This extension understands the following configuration options:

.. confval:: programoutput_prompt_template

   A `format string`_ template for the output of the ``prompt`` option to
   :dir:`command-output`.  Defaults to ``$ {command}\n{output}`` which renders
   as follows:

   .. command-output:: python -V

   The following keys are provided to the format string:

   * ``command`` is replaced with the literal command as given to the
     directive, *without* any ``extraargs``.
   * ``output`` is the output of the command, after the ``ellipsis`` option has
     been applied.
   * ``returncode`` is the return code of the command as integer.

.. confval:: programoutput_use_ansi

   If ``True``, ANSI colour sequences in program output are interpreted.  To
   use this feature, the extension :py:mod:`sphinxcontrib.ansi` must be enabled
   and configured.  If missing or ``False``, these sequences are not
   interpreted, but appear in documentation unchanged.


Contribution
------------

Please contact the author or create an issue in the `issue tracker`_ of the
sphinx-contrib_ repository, if you have found any bugs or miss some
functionality (e.g. integration of some other issue tracker).  Patches are
welcome!

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#alias] This directive is just an alias for the :dir:`program-output`
            directive with the ``prompt`` option set.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:

   changes.rst


.. _Sphinx: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/
.. _sphinx-contrib: https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx-contrib
.. _issue tracker: https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx-contrib/issues
.. _LICENSE: https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx-contrib/src/tip/LICENSE
.. _format string: http://docs.python.org/library/string.html#formatstrings

Commit message:

Handle EnvironmentErrors during command execution gracefully

programoutput/doc/index.rst, after:

.. default-domain:: rst
.. highlight:: rest

:py:mod:`sphinxcontrib.programoutput` – Insert command output
=============================================================

.. py:module:: sphinxcontrib.programoutput
   :synopsis:  Include the output of programs into documents

Sphinx 1.0 extension to insert the output of arbitrary commands into documents.

The extension is available under the terms of the BSD license, see LICENSE_
for more information.


Installation
------------

This extension requires Sphinx_ 1.0 and Python 2.6.  It is available in the
Python Package Index::

   pip install sphinxcontrib-programoutput

Alternatively, you can clone the sphinx-contrib_ repository from BitBucket,
and install the extension directly from the repository::

   hg clone https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx-contrib
   cd sphinx-contrib/programoutput
   python setup.py install


Usage
-----

To include the output of a command into your document, use the
:dir:`program-output` directive provided by this extension::

   .. program-output:: python -V

The whole output of ``python -V``, including any messages on standard error, is
inserted into the current document, formatted as literal text without any
syntax highlighting:

.. program-output:: python -V

You can omit the content of the standard error stream with the ``nostderr``
option.


Shortening the output
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lengthy output can be shortened with the ``ellipsis`` option.  Its value
denotes lines to omit when inserting the output of the command.  Instead, a
single ellipsis ``...`` is inserted.

If used with a single number, all lines after the specified line are omitted::

   .. program-output:: python --help
      :ellipsis: 2

The above omits all lines after the second one:

.. program-output:: python --help
   :ellipsis: 2

Negative numbers count from the last line backwards, thus replacing ``2`` with
``-2`` in the above example would only omit the last two lines.

If used with two comma-separated line numbers, all lines in between the
specified lines are omitted.  Again, a negative number counts from the last
line backwards::

   .. program-output:: python --help
      :ellipsis: 2,-2

The above omits all lines except the first two and the last two lines:

.. program-output:: python --help
   :ellipsis: 2,-2


Mimicing shell input
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can mimic shell input with the :dir:`command-output` directive [#alias]_.
This directive inserts the command along with its output into the document::

   .. command-output:: python -V

.. command-output:: python -V

The appearance of this output can be configured with
:confval:`programoutput_prompt_template`.  When used in conjunction with
``ellipsis``, the command itself and any additional text is *never* omitted.
``ellipsis`` always refers to the *immediate output* of the command::

   .. command-output:: python --help
      :ellipsis: 2

.. command-output:: python --help
   :ellipsis: 2


Command execution and shell expansion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Normally the command is splitted according to the POSIX shell syntax (see
:py:mod:`shlex`), and executed directly.  Thus special shell features like
expansion of environment variables will not work::

   .. command-output:: echo "$USER"

.. command-output:: echo "$USER"

To enable these features, enable the ``shell`` option.  With this option, the
command is literally passed to the system shell::

   .. command-output:: echo "$USER"
      :shell:

.. command-output:: echo "$USER"
   :shell:

Other shell features like process expansion consequently work, too::

   .. command-output:: ls -l $(which grep)
      :shell:

.. command-output:: ls -l $(which grep)
   :shell:

Remember to use ``shell`` carefully to avoid unintented interpretation of shell
syntax and swallowing of fatal errors!


Error handling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If an unexpected exit code (also known as *return code*) is returned by a
command, it is considered to have failed.  In this case, a build warning is
emitted to help you to detect misspelled commands or similar errors.  By
default, a command is expected to exit with an exit code of 0, all other codes
indicate an error.  In some cases however, it may be reasonable to demonstrate
failed programs.  To avoid a (superfluous) warning in such a case, you can
specify the expected return code of a command with the ``returncode`` option::

   .. command-output:: python -c 'import sys; sys.exit(1)'
      :returncode: 1

The above command returns the exit code 1 (as given to :py:func:`sys.exit()`),
but no warning will be emitted.  On the contrary, a warning will be emitted,
should the command return 0!

.. note::

   Upon fatal errors which even prevent the execution of the command neither
   return code nor command output are available.  In this case an error message
   is inserted into the document instead.

   If ``shell`` is set however, most of these fatal errors are handled by the
   system shell and turned into return codes instead.  In this case the error
   message will only appear in the output of the shell.  If you're using
   ``shell``, double-check the output for errors.  Best avoid ``shell``, if possible.


Reference
---------

.. directive:: .. program-output:: command

   Include the output of ``command`` in the documentation.

   The output is formatted as literal text, without any syntax highlighting.

   By default, the command is split according to the POSIX shell syntax (using
   :py:func:`shlex.split()`), and executed directly.  Both standard output and
   standard error are captured from the invocation of ``command`` and included
   in the document.  However, if the option ``shell`` is given, ``command`` is
   literally passed to the system shell.  With the ``nostderr`` option,
   standard error is hidden from the output.

   If the ``prompt`` option is given, the ``command`` itself is included in the
   document, so that the output mimics input in a shell prompt.
   :confval:`programoutput_prompt_template` controlls the appearance of this.
   The value of the ``extraargs`` option is appended at the end of ``command``
   (separated by a whitespace) before executing the command, but not included
   in the output of the ``prompt`` option.  Use this to pass extra arguments
   which should not appear in the document.

   The output can be shortened with the ``ellipsis`` option.  The value of this
   option is of the form ``start[,end]`` with ``start`` and ``end`` being
   integers which refer to lines in the output of ``command``.  ``end`` is
   optional and defaults to the last line.  Negative line numbers count
   backwards from the last line.  Everything in the interval ``[start, end[``
   is replaced with a single ellipsis ``...``.  The ``ellipsis`` option only
   affects the immediate output of ``command``, but never any additional text
   inserted by option ``prompt``.

   If the command does return an exit code different from the expected one, a
   build warning is issued.  The expected return code defaults to 0, and can be
   changed with the ``returncode`` option.

.. directive:: command-output

   Same as :dir:`program-output`, but with enabled ``prompt`` option.


Configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This extension understands the following configuration options:

.. confval:: programoutput_prompt_template

   A `format string`_ template for the output of the ``prompt`` option to
   :dir:`command-output`.  Defaults to ``$ {command}\n{output}`` which renders
   as follows:

   .. command-output:: python -V

   The following keys are provided to the format string:

   * ``command`` is replaced with the literal command as given to the
     directive, *without* any ``extraargs``.
   * ``output`` is the output of the command, after the ``ellipsis`` option has
     been applied.
   * ``returncode`` is the return code of the command as integer.

.. confval:: programoutput_use_ansi

   If ``True``, ANSI colour sequences in program output are interpreted.  To
   use this feature, the extension :py:mod:`sphinxcontrib.ansi` must be enabled
   and configured.  If missing or ``False``, these sequences are not
   interpreted, but appear in documentation unchanged.


Contribution
------------

Please contact the author or create an issue in the `issue tracker`_ of the
sphinx-contrib_ repository, if you have found any bugs or miss some
functionality (e.g. integration of some other issue tracker).  Patches are
welcome!

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#alias] This directive is just an alias for the :dir:`program-output`
            directive with the ``prompt`` option set.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:

   changes.rst


.. _Sphinx: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/
.. _sphinx-contrib: https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx-contrib
.. _issue tracker: https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx-contrib/issues
.. _LICENSE: https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx-contrib/src/tip/LICENSE
.. _format string: http://docs.python.org/library/string.html#formatstrings
